# 1.4b Computational Methods

## Computational thinking

Computational thinking is when you take a complex problem and break it down into smaller peices which are much more manageable for example creating a list of task that need to be done by the end of the week, you would then break down the task that are needed to be done into smaller much more easy daily tasks.

## Thinking Abstractly and Visualisation

Abstraction is essentially removing uneeded details from a problem so you are able to focus on the core parts of the problem first. Abstraction is important for game design because it allows you to input all of your focus on the core features of your game,making it overall better for the player. Important features include:

* Stage layout - The basic stage layout doesnt need to be complicated, it will consist of characters enemies and potentially usable items&#x20;
* Keyboard - The player needs to be able to input commands on the keyboard when playing the game sufficiently and easily.
* The graphics - Dont need to be amazing ,the game just needs to be easy to understand. Players will be able to properly assess what is on the screen with the art style that i will use which is mostly a pixelated style&#x20;
* Enemies and objects - Enemies will interact with the player  and might very well hurt the player if they get too close, doors might be locked behind a key that is needed to be found in order to unlock it                                                                &#x20;

## Thinking Ahead

Thinking Ahead is Mapping and properly planning out the game and project before actually making the game.Its Integral to Game development and any project in general as it allows you to consider the first steps needed to get to the final product.Usually without thinking ahead we can run into certain errors or variables we didnt consider and it can throw us of the right course to get the end.

In order for me to keep track I need to think of the more majorly important tasks first. Not everything will remian consistent throughout the whole project, Things like the inputs in the keyboard for controls will remain the same though so the player isnt confused and annoyed by the game

## Thinking Procedurally and Decomposition

Decomposition is the procces of finding out the Smaller things needed to solve the larger problem and splitting them into do-able tasks. Its much more efficient and manageable so when writing code you are able to do it without feeling overwhelmed&#x20;

I tend to not fixate on one task at a time so this will definately help me focus . All these smaller tasks add up and help me greatly to my greater goal ,my main tasks will be explained and laid out in the Success criteria.



## Thinking Logically

## Thinking Concurrently
